https://leetcode.com/discuss/interview-experience/1149636/Amazon-LPs-Compiled


Since few people might be interested in the LP scenarios, below is a list of LPs I prepared for :
Customer Obsession
1.) When you asked for customer feedback and how did you use that feedback to drive innovation and how did customer respond.
2.) When you evaluated customer experience about the product. What did you do and what was the result?

Ownership
3.) When you took on something significant outside your area of responsibility? why?
4.) When you did not think you are going to meet a deadline you promised. How did you identify the risk and convey to stakeholders?

Deliver Result
5.) When you were able to deliver an important project under a tight deadline? What sacrifices did you make to do so? How did they impact and the outcome?

Earn Trust
6.) When you received a critical feedback. What was it and what did you do?

Learn and be curious
7.) When you realized you needed a deeper matter of subject expertise to do your job well and what was the outcome.
8.) When you did not know what to do next or how to solve a challenging problem. How do learn and what were the options considered. What was the best was forward and what was the outcome?

Insist on higher standards
9.) When you refused to compromise your standards around quality and customer service? Who was the customer?
10.) When you worked you improve the quality of product of service that was already getting good customer feedback? Why did you do that and how did customer react.

Dive Deep
11.) A job that required to dig deep to get to the root-cause? How did you know you were focusing on the right things and what was the outcome?

Other General LPs
12.) Describe a time when you took a calculated risk.
13.) Describe a time when you took a shortcut.
14.) Conflit with manager in any project.
15.) Three things you are doing to improve yourself.
16.) Tell about a time when you convinced someone with your opinion and you were right.
17.) What is the most innovative work you have done?
