file:///C:/Users/Raman%20Manocha/Desktop/Operating%20Systems%20Interview%20Questions.html

Deadlock is a situation where a set of processes are blocked because each process is holding a resource and waiting for another resource acquired by some other process.




Thrashing is a condition or a situation when the system is spending a major portion of its time in servicing the page faults, but the actual processing done is very negligible.



Internal Fragmentation: Internal fragmentation happens when the memory is split into mounted sized blocks. Whenever a method request for the memory, the mounted 
sized block is allotted to the method. just in case the memory allotted to the method 
is somewhat larger than the memory requested, then the distinction between allotted and requested memory is that the internal fragmentation.


External Fragmentation:
External fragmentation happens when there's a sufficient quantity of area within the memory to satisfy the memory request of a method. however,
the process’s memory request cannot be happy because the memory offered is during a non-contiguous manner. Either you apply first-fit or best-fit memory allocation strategy 
it'll cause external fragmentation



Page table has page table entries where each page table entry stores a frame number and optional status (like protection) bits. Many of the status bits used
in the virtual memory system. The most important thing in PTE is frame Number.



External Fragmentation:
External fragmentation happens when there's a sufficient quantity of area within the memory to satisfy the memory request of a method. however, 
the process’s memory request cannot be happy because the memory offered is during a non-contiguous manner. Either you apply first-fit or best-fit memory 
allocation strategy it'll cause external fragmentation.

Necessary Conditions for Deadlock to occur Deadlock can arise if the following four conditions hold simultaneously

Mutual Exclusion: One or more than one resource are non-sharable (Only one process can use at a time)
Hold and Wait: A process is holding at least one resource and waiting for resources.
No Preemption: A resource cannot be taken from a process unless the process releases the resource.
Circular Wait: A set of processes are waiting for each other in circular form.



The banker’s algorithm is a resource allocation and deadlock avoidance algorithm that tests for safety by simulating the allocation for
predetermined maximum possible amounts of all resources, then makes an “s-state” check to test for possible activities, before deciding whether allocation
should be allowed to continue.


